When analyzing this data, the dollar amounts were rounded to the nearest tenth after the calculations for each query.  The first query finds the “average_retail_price,” or what a consumer pays for all eight fruit and vegetable tables.  Over time, both fruit and vegetable prices increased.  In 2013, the average fruit price was $2.39, whereas the average fruit cost in 2022 was $2.99.  Vegetables in 2013 averaged at $1.81 but rose to $2.10 by 2022.  Within the first query, consumers can correctly assume that, on average, vegetables are priced lower than fruits.  The second query followed the same format as the first, but used “average_price_per_cup,” or what a business would pay for the produce.  The results are similar since businesses were affected by price increases to receive products.  In 2013, the average cost for a fruit item was $0.83 to obtain, and the average vegetable item was $0.72.  In 2022, these prices jumped to $1.06 and $0.82, respectively.  This shows an increase of $0.60 for fruits and $0.29 for consumers purchasing vegetables. On the other hand, businesses only saw an increase of $0.23 and $0.10 for fruits and vegetables.

The third query is used to find the cheapest fruit and vegetable for both customers and businesses to purchase.  The data for both businesses and consumers was paired, so it was easy to compare what the lowest price was for both.  This allowed insight into potential changes both parties saw to give insight into changing markets.  In 2013, fresh watermelon and fresh potatoes were the cheapest items for both businesses and consumers.  In 2016, there was a change.  For consumers and businesses, watermelon was still the cheapest.  For consumers, fresh potatoes were still the cheapest vegetable option, but businesses were able to get dried pinto beans the cheapest.  In 2020, the cheapest fruit and vegetable remained the same for consumers and businesses.  However, in 2022, while fresh watermelon remained the cheapest fruit for both a business and a consumer, and dried pinto beans were the cheapest for a store to provide, fresh green cabbage became the cheapest item for a consumer to buy at $0.80.

Query four uses the same format as query three, but instead finds the most expensive item for both the business and the customer.  In 2013, dried mangoes were the most expensive form of fruit for a consumer, and frozen artichoke was the most expensive vegetable.  Businesses experienced different items than consumers and saw canned cherries packed in syrup or water and fresh asparagus as the two highest-cost items.  2016 saw frozen asparagus change to the most expensive vegetable for consumers. In 2020 the most expensive vegetable a business paid to obtain was frozen asparagus, while the most expensive fruit and the consumer’s most expensive items remained the same.  All of the items remained the same in 2022.

Query five is used for customers to find items that cost under a dollar.  The list of fruits shrank from fifteen items in 2013 to nine items in 2022.  The list of vegetables consumers could purchase for under one dollar shrank as well.  The list went from eighteen options to four items.  Regarding unit measurements, which are based on pounds, query six focuses on this data.  The average price per pound of fruit jumped from $2.29 in 2013 to $2.99, which shows that the measurement of cost in association with standard servings remains the same.  Vegetable prices by weight for consumers also remained the same, as did the prices businesses paid.

Customers may be more inclined to buy canned or frozen items due to longevity, because perishable items may not be the best option for some.  Queries seven, eight, and ten highlight the trends of the average pricing for each form offered for both businesses and customers. For consumers, fruits in order of most expensive to least expensive, the options were dried, frozen, canned, and then juice for all four years recorded.  Regarding vegetables, the options from most expensive to least expensive were frozen, fresh, dried, and canned for all four years.  For a business, they experienced the trend of frozen, canned, dried, fresh, and juice for all four years, and vegetables were frozen, canned, fresh, and dried for 2013, 2016, and 2022, but 2020 saw a slight change of frozen, fresh, canned, and dried.  Query ten shows a middle ground for pricing for customers regarding both fruits and vegetables to give a generalized idea for each item.

While queries seven, eight, and ten focus on cost, query nine shows the number of options.  Fresh options for both fruits and vegetables were the most abundant, even though they are not necessarily the most cost-effective.  Regarding forms, query eleven shows the exact fruit, vegetables, and forms that are the cheapest.  The cheapest options for fruits by form, applesauce (canned), apple juice, raisins (dried grapes), frozen strawberries, and fresh watermelon, as the best options for saving money across the four years recorded.  For vegetables, the cheapest by form were fresh green cabbage, frozen corn, dried pinto beans, and canned potatoes.

Queries twelve and thirteen focus on businesses.  Query twelve shows the least profitable fruits and vegetables for all four recorded years.  In 2013, the least profitable fruit was fresh watermelon, but 2016, 2020, and 2022, all saw fresh grapefruit as the least profitable.  The least profitable vegetable for all four years was fresh artichoke.  Fresh artichoke had a negative profit.  Query thirteen focuses on the most profitable items.  Dried mangoes were consistently the most profitable fruit, and 2016, 2020, and 2022 saw frozen asparagus as the most profitable vegetable.  2013, however, experienced frozen artichoke as the vegetable that made the most profit for a business.


Queries fourteen and fifteen contain joined tables.  In query fourteen, all of the fruit tables were combined to see the difference in price changes across all four recorded years.  Generally speaking, prices increase, but several items dropped in price.  Similarly, query fourteen also focuses on combining the cost of vegetables.  Unlike fruits, only fresh red peppers and fresh asparagus experienced lower costs.  Query fifteen uses the same concept but looks at business cost changes for fruits and vegetables across 2013 through 2022.  Businesses only paid cheaper prices on fresh blueberries, fresh grapes, and fresh pineapple.  Vegetables saw a lower cost of goods for fresh asparagus, fresh red peppers, and dried black beans.
